docs/index.rst, before:


.. figure:: ../rfpy/examples/picture/RfPy_logo.png
   :align: center

Documentation
=============

``RfPy`` is a package containing Python tools for calculating teleseismic
receiver functions. Methods are available to plot and post-process 
receiver function data for use in crustal and upper mantle studies. 
Current post processing methods include: H-k stacking,
Harmonic decomposition and CCP imaging. The code uses 
the ``StDb`` package for querying and building a station database 
used in command-line scripts.

.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3905414.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3905414
.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/paudetseis/RfPy.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.com/paudetseis/RfPy
.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/paudetseis/RfPy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/paudetseis/RfPy

.. note::

   ``RfPy`` was written independently of the Python software `rf <https://rf.readthedocs.io>`_,
   although it is possible that some classes and methods defined here might be applied
   to ``rf`` objects, since both are heavily based on `obspy <http://www.obspy.org>`_. The main
   differences between ``RfPy`` and ``rf`` are as follows:

   * ``RfPy`` employs either a Wiener or multitaper spectral deconvolution 
     technique, whereas ``rf`` uses either a water-level 
     spectral deconvolution or a time-domain deconvolution.
   * ``RfData`` objects are used to calculate single-station and single-event receiver 
     functions, whereas ``rf`` can handle multiple stations at once. 

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Quick Links

   links

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started

   rfpy

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Documentation

   api

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Scripts & Tutorials

   scripts
   tutorials

Commit message:

updated docs for new script calling

docs/index.rst, after:


.. figure:: ../rfpy/examples/picture/RfPy_logo.png
   :align: center

Documentation
=============

``RfPy`` is a package containing Python tools for calculating teleseismic
receiver functions. Methods are available to plot and post-process 
receiver function data for use in crustal and upper mantle studies. 
Current post processing methods include: H-k stacking,
Harmonic decomposition and CCP imaging. The code uses 
the ``StDb`` package for querying and building a station database 
used in command-line scripts.

.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3905414.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3905414
.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/paudetseis/RfPy.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.com/paudetseis/RfPy
.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/paudetseis/RfPy/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/paudetseis/RfPy

.. note::

   ``RfPy`` was written independently of the Python software `rf <https://rf.readthedocs.io>`_,
   although it is possible that some classes and methods defined here might be applied
   to ``rf`` objects, since both are heavily based on `obspy <http://www.obspy.org>`_. The main
   differences between ``RfPy`` and ``rf`` are as follows:

   * ``RfPy`` employs either a Wiener or multitaper spectral deconvolution 
     technique, whereas ``rf`` uses either a water-level 
     spectral deconvolution or a time-domain deconvolution.
   * ``RfData`` objects are used to calculate single-station and single-event receiver 
     functions, whereas ``rf`` can handle multiple stations at once. 

.. warning::
   ``RfPy`` was recently updated to fix a problem when running the scripts under Windows OS. The consequence is that version ``0.1.1`` will throw an error if the extension .py is specified when calling the scripts. The accompanying documentation also uses version ``0.2.1`` of ``StDb`` in the Tutorials section.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Quick Links

   links

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started

   rfpy

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Documentation

   api

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Scripts & Tutorials

   scripts
   tutorials
